README.md, before:

# mirt

Multidimensional item response theory in R. 

## Description

Analysis of dichotomous and polytomous response data using latent
trait models under the Item Response Theory paradigm. Exploratory models
can be estimated via quadrature or stochastic methods, a generalized
confirmatory bi-factor analysis is included, and confirmatory models can be
fit with a Metropolis-Hastings Robbins-Monro algorithm which may include
polynomial or product constructed latent traits. Multiple group analysis
and mixed effects designs may be performed for unidimensional or
multidimensional item response models for detecting differential item
functioning and modelling item and person covariates.

## Installing from source

It's recommended to use the development version of this package since it is more likely to be up to date 
than the version on CRAN. To install this package from source: 

1) Obtain recent gcc, g++, and gfortran compilers. Windows users can install the
   [Rtools](http://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/Rtools/) suite while Mac users will have to
   download the necessary tools from the [Xcode](https://itunes.apple.com/ca/app/xcode/id497799835?mt=12) suite and its
   related command line tools (found within Xcode's Preference Pane under Downloads/Components); most Linux
   distributions should already have up to date compilers (or if not they can be updated easily). 

2) Install the `devtools` package (if necessary). In R, paste the following into the console:

```r
install.packages('devtools')
```

3) Load the `devtools` package and install from the Github source code. 
 
```r
library('devtools')
install_github('mirt', 'philchalmers')
```

# Presentations and Workshops

Below are some presentation/workshop files for `mirt` that I have written and presented, and 
may be helpful in understanding the package. 

- 2013 workshop in Klagenfurt, Austria (coming soon)
- [2012 presentation](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/10780530/mirt/mirt-presentation-2012.pdf) at 
  York University, Toronto

# Bugs and Questions

Bug reports are always welcome and the preferred way to address these bugs is through
the Github 'issues'. Feel free to submit issues or feature requests on the site, and I'll 
address them ASAP. Also, if you have any questions about the package, or IRT in general, then
feel free to create a 'New Topic' in the 
[mirt-package](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/mirt-package) Google group. Cheers!

Commit message:

add link to itemplot shiny app

README.md, after:

# mirt

Multidimensional item response theory in R. 

## Description

Analysis of dichotomous and polytomous response data using latent
trait models under the Item Response Theory paradigm. Exploratory models
can be estimated via quadrature or stochastic methods, a generalized
confirmatory bi-factor analysis is included, and confirmatory models can be
fit with a Metropolis-Hastings Robbins-Monro algorithm which may include
polynomial or product constructed latent traits. Multiple group analysis
and mixed effects designs may be performed for unidimensional or
multidimensional item response models for detecting differential item
functioning and modelling item and person covariates.

## Installing from source

It's recommended to use the development version of this package since it is more likely to be up to date 
than the version on CRAN. To install this package from source: 

1) Obtain recent gcc, g++, and gfortran compilers. Windows users can install the
   [Rtools](http://cran.r-project.org/bin/windows/Rtools/) suite while Mac users will have to
   download the necessary tools from the [Xcode](https://itunes.apple.com/ca/app/xcode/id497799835?mt=12) suite and its
   related command line tools (found within Xcode's Preference Pane under Downloads/Components); most Linux
   distributions should already have up to date compilers (or if not they can be updated easily). 

2) Install the `devtools` package (if necessary). In R, paste the following into the console:

```r
install.packages('devtools')
```

3) Load the `devtools` package and install from the Github source code. 
 
```r
library('devtools')
install_github('mirt', 'philchalmers')
```

# Presentations, Workshops, and Other Things

Below are some presentation/workshop files for `mirt` that I have written and presented, and 
may be helpful in understanding the package. 

- 2013 workshop in Klagenfurt, Austria (coming soon)
- a Shiny application is available here to show how modifying item parameters in `mirt` will affect
  tracelines, information curves, etc. To run the application you must have `shiny` installed, and use
  the following syntax in R to launch the application in a web browser: `shiny::runGist('6337165')`
- [2012 presentation](https://dl.dropboxusercontent.com/u/10780530/mirt/mirt-presentation-2012.pdf) at 
  York University, Toronto

# Bugs and Questions

Bug reports are always welcome and the preferred way to address these bugs is through
the Github 'issues'. Feel free to submit issues or feature requests on the site, and I'll 
address them ASAP. Also, if you have any questions about the package, or IRT in general, then
feel free to create a 'New Topic' in the 
[mirt-package](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/mirt-package) Google group. Cheers!
